A data analysis model for experimental data conducted on human confidence in risky, value-based decisions to determine how subjective confidence is computed in the brain. 
This research is a part of the Masset Lab: https://massetlab.org/ 

Signatures of a statistical computation reflecting Bayesian confidence hypothesis in the feeling of confidence have been found in humans and rodents, demonstrating a confidence-guided behaviors of time investment and a confidence-driving factor of evidence discrimination. However, researchers have been unable to reach a consensus on how one or more perceptual measures can be used to assess metacognitive accuracy, highlighting the importance of investigating confidence in increasingly complex and realistic decision tasks. One important form of decision-making is risky value-based decisions, which reflect real-world scenarios, such as financial investments. Thus, we sought to determine if the human feeling of confidence in risky value-based decisions follows statistical confidence predictions of the BCH model established by Sanders et al. (2016) and to investigate how subjective confidence is computed in the brain for these decisions. We will perform a data analysis of the experimental results from the decision task study conducted by da Silva Castanheria et al. (2021). By modeling three canonical confidence signatures (calibration, vevaiometric, and conditioned psychometric), we were able to examine how (1) subjective confidence and choice type jointly predicts accuracy, (2) evidence discriminability and choice type jointly predict subjective confidence, and (3) evidence discriminability and confidence jointly predict choice type. Moreover, we were able to separate our analysis into two groups based on probabilistic uncertainty. Across all three signatures, our results demonstrate that confidence in risky value-based reflects a form of statistical computation. However, our results suggest that these statistical relationships are modulated by the presence of risk.

Data provided by: da Silva Castanheira, K., Fleming, S. M., & Otto, A. R. (2021). Confidence in risky value-based choice. Psychonomic bulletin & review, 28(3), 1021–1028. https://doi.org/10.3758/s13423-020-01848-y
Data available here: https://osf.io/bry3k/
